Documentation: Update Admission Section (#5677)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/concepts/admission.md

---
title: "Admission"
date: 
weight: 
description: >

>   Kueue's admission process where quota reservation meets physical capacity guarantees, using ProvisioningRequest for autoscaling integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Kueue's admission process determines when a Job should be started.
```

---

Kueue's admission process determines whether a Workload can begin execution. It involves verifying logical resource availability through quota reservation, followed by performing AdmissionChecks to validate physical resource provisioning and policy compliance. 

Kueue implements this through a two-phase admission cycle: 

1. **Quota Reservation:** When a user submits a Workload, it enters a LocalQueue first. This LocalQueue points to a ClusterQueue which is responsible for managing the available resources. The Kueue checks if the targeted ClusterQueue's available quota and resource flavors can accomodate requested resources (CPU, memory, GPUs, etc.). If the quota is available, the Kueue reserves resources for this Workload and prevents other Workloads from using the same resources. 

> 2. **Admission Checks:** After the quota reservation, Kueue executes all [AdmissionChecks](/docs/concepts/admission_check) configured in the ClusterQueue, concurrently. These are the pluggable controllers that can perform validations such as policy checks, compliance, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Admission Checks:** Await for [AdmissionChecks](/docs/concepts/admission_check) configured in the ClusterQueue. These can be either built-in like MultiKueue or ProvisioningRequest, or are the pluggable
controllers that can perform validations such as policy checks, compliance, etc.
```
Also, provide links to MultiKueue, ProvisioningRequest when mentioning the concepts.

These checks can be external or internal and determine if additional criteria are met before the Workload is admitted. The Workload is admitted once all its [AdmissionCheckStates](/docs/concepts/admission_check/#admissioncheckstates) are marked `Ready`.

> ## Provisioning AdmissionCheck 

Reviewer: This is a special case, I think it deserves a dedicated page. I would suggest it is a subpage to [Admission Check](https://kueue.sigs.k8s.io/docs/concepts/admission_check/). Then, we could move the MultiKueue there in follow up.

Author: Hey! I have made changes as per your feedback! I’d like to make sure I fully understand this suggestion of yours before proceeding.
Specifically, I’m unsure what you mean by "ProvisioningRequest AdmissionCheck and MultiKueue are at the same level of organization." Are you suggesting that both should be separate subpages under Admission Check, or something else like moving the content under Admission Check? Any examples or a more detailed explanation would be greatly appreciated!

Reviewer: > Are you suggesting that both should be separate subpages under Admission Check, or something else like moving the content under Admission Check?

Yes, exactly. MultiKueue and ProvisioningRequests are both examples of built-in AdmissionChecks. As such, I believe it it makes sense to treat them equally and put description of both as subpages to the main page describing the AdmissionCheck concept.
